h52034
s 00000/00000/00000
d R 1.2 01/10/20 13:35:41 Codemgr 2 1
c SunPro Code Manager data about conflicts, renames, etc...
c Name history : 2 1 usr/src/man/BattleTris.1
c Name history : 1 0 src/man/BattleTris.1
e
s 00180/00000/00000
d D 1.1 01/10/20 13:35:40 bmc 1 0
c date and time created 01/10/20 13:35:40 by bmc
e
u
U
f e 0
t
T
I 1
'\"macro stdmacro
.nr X
.TH BattleTris 1 "11 Dec 1994"
.SH NAME
BattleTris \- Two-player networked tetris with a twist
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B BattleTris
[
.B \-h
|
.B \-?
]
[
.B \-H
]
[
.B \-V
]
[
.B \-s
]
[
.B \-p
]
[
.B \-S host
]
[
.B \-P port
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "BattleTris" "" "\fLBattleTris\fP \(em BattleTris"
.IX "BattleTris" "tetris" \(em \fLBattleTris\fP"
.BR BattleTris (1)
is a two-player networked game based on
.I Tetris\^.
Players collect money to purchase weapons, which in turn make the other
player's game more difficult.
Examples of weapons include flipping
the opponent's screen upside down, swapping boards with your opponent,
"spying" on your opponent, giving your opponent disjointed pieces,
etc.
Each player's record is maintained in a database, and players
are ranked based on their performance.
This database is maintained by separate
.I BattleTris Server\^
software.
If a player wants to hone his or her skills, he or she may also play
the computer (though not for ranking).
.PD
.SH RULES OF THE GAME
After connection is established, each player begins by playing tetris
normally.
The difference is that in addition to the standard pieces,
there exists a die piece.
This is a one block piece that has a value from 1 to 6 pips.
Whenever a player gets a line, his or her "funds" go up by the number
of pips in the line (it's important to note that a "double" earns
twice the number of pips in the double, a triple earns triple, and a
tetris earns quadruple).
It is also important to note that there is a small probability that
the piece will be a one by one happy face.
Should the player get a line with the happy face on that turn, their
funds will increase by 150.
If they miss, however, the happy face will turn into a frown.
.PP
The opportunity to spend funds comes whenever the two players between
them get 20 lines.
At this time, both players go to a weapons bazaar, where they each
purchase weapons to make the other's game more difficult.
Examples of weapons are flipping the opponent's screen upside-down, 
giving them disjointed pieces, depriving them of long pieces, depleting
opponent's funds, etc.
.PP
Once both players have left the bazaar, play continues.
Players may launch weapons by pressing the number key which
corresponds to the number of the weapon in the arsenal
(which is displayed on-screen).
The weapon will last for a specific duration, measured in lines.
Typical durations range from 3 to 30 lines.
.PP
The first player to die loses.
.PD
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-h
Display usage information.
BattleTris will print out a short synopsis of available command-line options.
.TP 10
.B \-H
Display licensing information.
BattleTris will print out a short synopsis of copyright and license agreement
information.
.TP 10
.B \-V
Display version number and compilation information.
BattleTris will print out a synopsis of version information and a list of the
flags used to compile this version of the game.
.TP 10
.B \-s
Start BattleTris in sleep-mode.
This option is equivalent to starting BattleTris and then selecting the
sleep button after startup.
.TP 10
.B \-p
Enable headphones.
This flag specifies that BattleTris should play sounds through the
headphone jack in the speakerbox.
.TP 10
.B \-S host
Specify the BattleTris Server hostname.
Use this option to connect to an alternate BattleTris Server.  To view the
default BattleTris Server host for your version of BattleTris, use the \-V
command-line argument.
.TP 10
.B \-P port
Specify the BattleTris Server port number.
Use this option to connect to an alternate TCP port on the specified BattleTris
Server host.  To view the default BattleTris Server port for your version of
BattleTris, use the \-V command-line argument.
.PD
.SH STATISTICS
Statistics for each player are recorded by the local
.I BattleTris Server\^
software.  Statistics are only recorded for games in which a player
competes against another player at the same local server site.
Statistics are never recorded for games played against the same user
account on a different host, or for games played against the
computer player.  BattleTris will receive periodic updates of the
most recent statistics from the server.  For this reason, the results
of games will not appear in the roster immediately following each game.
.PP
The statistics recorded for each player are: a player rank value based
upon the number of wins and losses, and the rank of the opponent; the
total number of wins; the total number of losses; the highest final
score in a single game; the highest final line count in a single game;
the highest funds total at any point in a single game; the current
streak of wins or losses for this player; the fastest kill by this
player in seconds; the quickest death by this player in seconds; and
the longest game played by this player in seconds.
.PP
The specific record of wins and losses by each player against each of
the opponents they have faced is also recorded in the database.  This
allows the
.I BattleTris Roster\^
to display the head\-to\-head record of any two players.  To display the
head-to-head record of any two players, click the mouse button on the
upper player information box, and then select the first player from the
scrolling list at the left.  Next click the mouse button on the lower
player information box, and then select the second player from the
scrolling list at the left.  If the players have faced each other before,
their head\-to\-head record is now displayed in the center of the screen.
.PD
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 5
.B $HOME/.btplan
Your own personalized BattleTris plan file.  The first line specifies
your nickname, and the other lines specify your plan, as shown in
the roster screen.  Make sure to
.BR chmod (1)
your BattleTris plan file to be have read permissions for "other".

.TP
.B /cs/bin/BattleTris
BattleTris application software.
.TP
.B /cs/app-defaults/BattleTris
BattleTris X-Window default resources.
.TP
.B /cs/man/man1/BattleTris.1
BattleTris documentation.
.TP
.B /cs/man/man1/btref.1
BattleTris referee documentation.
.PD
.SH AUTHORS
Bryan Cantrill, Charles Hoecker, and Michael Shapiro
.TP
Brown University Department of Computer Science
E 1
